---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# ABMLP-X Introduction

Agent-Based Model Liquidity Preference-X is a computational interpretation of the third sectoral system described by G&L. View the model [accounting](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1NcpXHy4gTfRFKzN3JeQgiL39_UO8THEleTs_sAEWOxs/edit#gid=1894302012).

ABMLP-X has agent class types, these being an Environment, Government, Central Bank as well as multiple Producers and Households.

Model Government and Central Bank agents consume real-world UK economic time-series data that spans the beginning of the financial year 1974 to the latest available. A model may run to the future, *beyond* the latest available data. In this scenario the model may be bound to either the internal logic of agents, or to time-series data that is generated by historical analysis of UK Government expenditures and base rates.

## Agent Behaviours

Producers employ Households and use energy. Households pursue wealth management strategies that include, but are not limited to, the management of a money asset portfolio and taxation payments. Though Government and Central Bank agents set the scene - and thus the path dependency of the system - Household strategies can matter. System feedback will affect the parameters set by the internal logic of both Government and Central Bank; pertinent when running into a speculated *future* scenario.

:::note ABMLP-X Documentation

Agent properties, comments and functions are updated as the model evolves.

:::

## Steady State System

:::tip Test Data App

The Hugging Face space, [abmlp-test](https://danodrisc-abmlp-test.hf.space), shows test output of agent-based model liquidity preference-X.

:::
